hey this is pressure Walker REO but
mentions he has a twin brother Bhaskar
if one in ten sets of twins are
identical and nine in ten sets of twins
are fraternal what is the probability
that Audrey abut and Bhaskar are
identical twins to be precise identical
twins developed from a single fertilized
egg and have the same sex for eternal
twins develop from two separate
fertilized eggs suppose the sex of each
fraternal twin is independently
determined and equally likely to be male
or female in suppose that identical
twins are equally likely to be male or
female can you figure it out give this
problem a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video for the solution a
common mistake is that many people think
the answer is one over ten if you hear
reo but has a twin there is a one in ten
chance between is identical but if you
learn the gender of the twin that
influences the probability to see why
suppose that Aria but mentions he has a
twin sister as identical twins have the
same sex you could conclude with
certainty they are not identical twins
just as learning Aria but as a twin
sister decreases the 1 in 10 chance he
has an identical twin brother down to
zero learning he has a twin brother
increases the 1 in 10 chance he has an
identical twin brother there is a
precise way to update the probability
based on the probability of the other
events I will explain 3 methods which
are all flavors of the same idea Bayes
theorem in the first method will compare
the frequencies consider a population
with 1,000 sets of twins out of those
thousand sets of twins we expect 100 to
be identical twins because that's 1 in
10 of these we expect equal frequencies
of to gender pairings male male and
female so we expect 50 sets of identical
twin brothers on the other hand we
expect 900 to be fraternal twins because
that's 9 out of 10 of these we expect
equal frequencies of for gender pairings
male male male female female male and
female female so expect 225 sets of
fraternal twin brothers so in total we
expect 50 plus 225 which equals 275 sets
of twin brothers out of these 50 are
identical which is 2 out of 11 or
approximately 18.2% therefore there is a
2 over 11 or approximately 18 point 2
percent chance that Arya but who has a
twin brother has an identical twin
brother another way we could solve this
problem is to write a probability tree
twins can either be identical or
fraternal identical twins can either be
female female or male male with equal
probability and fraternal twins can be
any of the four gender pairings with
equal chance now we're only concerned
with twin brothers so we only want to
focus on these two branches the
probability can be found by multiplying
the probabilities of each branch so the
probability of identical twin male
brothers is 1 out of 10 times 1/2 which
equals 1 out of 20 fraternal twin
brothers will be 9 out of 10 times 1
over 4 which is 9 over 40 so the total
probability of male twin brothers is
equal to the sum of these which is 1
over 20 plus 9 over 40 which is equal to
11 over 40 the probability of identical
twin brothers knowing that they are male
twin brothers will be the ratio of the
top branch to the entire probability and
this works out to be 2 over 11
therefore we get to the same answer of
approximately 18.2% the third way is to
work through the textbook Bayes theorem
will let I denote the event of identical
twins let's denote the event of
fraternal twins and B denote the event
of twin brothers we're interested in the
probability of a given B and by Bayes
theorem this equals the probability of B
given a time's the probability by all
over the probability of B we can expand
out the denominator because twins are
either identical or fraternal we now
substitute in the relevant probabilities
in each of these we then simplify to get
to the answer of two over eleven so
again we get to the approximately 18.2%
chance did you figure it out and which
method did you use thanks for watching
this video please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math and game
theory you can catch around my blog mind
your decisions which you can follow on
Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch her on social media at Parker and
if you like this video please check out
my books there are links in the video
description